# 5.2 - Writing Constructors

A call to a constructor consists of the word `new` followed by the name of the class being constructed, and then argument list in parenthesis.
```
Student s1 = new Student();
Student s2 = new Student("Ali", "alizainali@gmail.com", "773-812-2932"); 
```

## Constructor Signature
Constructors are usually written after the instance variables and before any methods. 
The signature of a constructor is similar to the signature of a method except there is no return type, and instead of a method name, the name of the constructor is the same as the name of the class. 
The constructors will always be marked `public`.

```
public class ClassName {
	// Instance variable declarations
	
	// Constructors
	public ClassName() {
		// Implementation not shown
	}
	
	// Method definitions
}
```
## The Job of a Constructor

The job of a constructor is to set the initial values for the object's instance variables.
Classes can have zero or more constructors but they should all produce an object in a valid state.

If you don’t write a constructor, your class will automatically get a default constructor with no arguments. The constructor will initialize all your instance variables to the default value of their type: 0 for `int` and `double`, `false` for `boolean`, and `null` for all reference types.

Usually, however, if you are writing a class that has instance variables, you need to initialize your instance values to some other values. In that case, you probably need to write a constructor that takes arguments and uses them to initialize your instance variables. 

```
public Student (String initName, String initEmail, String initPhone) {
	name = initName;
	email = initEmail;
	phoneNumber = initPhone;
}
```
If you do write a constructor, Java will not generate the default constructor for you. This is a good thing because it lets you make sure that instances of your class are always properly initialized. 

Sometimes you will want to write more than one constructor so there are different ways of making an instance of your class. This is called **overloading**.

## Advanced AP Topic: Reference Parameters
Optional Topic

When you pass object references as parameters to constructors or methods, those references refer to the same objects as the references in the caller. If the objects are immutable, like String objects, it doesn’t matter at all. 

On the other hand, if the objects are mutable, meaning their instance variables can change after they are constructed, then storing the passed-in reference in an instance variable in your object can lead to surprising results: if some other code changes the object it will change for you too. 
If that’s not what you want, sometimes it makes sense to copy the object passed to the constructor and store the copy in the instance variable instead. 

```
public class Student {
	private String name;
	private Address addr; //Assuming we have a class named Address 
	
	// constructor: initialize instance variable and call Address constructor to make a copy
	public Student(String initName, Address initAddr) {
		name = initName;
		addr = New Address();
	}
}
```
